# 1.3.1

The path hierarchy is here! This new setting allows you to configure exactly where your character files are placed based on their tags. See the readme for more details.

This release comes with a few enhancements, including a new way to configure character organization, and a big change to the settings file format. You will need to update your user and campaign settings; the old versions will not work!

## Added

* New `hierarchy` setting for configuring where character files are placed
* New `campaign` option to the GUI that allows it to start in a given campaign directory
* New `location` tag for specifying a non-foreign character location
* List command and helpers now support a progress bar callback
* CLI list output now shows a fancy progress bar
    - Supports integration with other progress bars for the gui
* Explicit result objects for success state
* New `latest` command to open the latest plot file, session file, or both
* The `init` command can now create user-specified directories during campaign setup from the `additional_paths` key.
* Markdown listings now accept "multimarkdown" as a metadata format. It works the same as passing "mmd".
* New `report` option to the lint command that allows the reported problems to be shown without opening all of the affected files.
* Can now clear recent campaign menu in the GUI
* The `find` command now accepts the asterisk (`*`) character when searching on a field. It returns all characters that have any value for that field.
* New `Open Latest` menu in the GUI to open the most recent plot or session file.
* Character names are no longer limited to word-like characters and can include any letters or typographical marks you want

## Changed

* Change cli file layout
* Added more explicit result classes and removed old error codes
* Refactor session command into story module
* Change main settings file to use a different layout. User and campaign settings will need to be updated.
* Added features to the markdown lister to bring it closer to the html lister's feature set
    - Section headings are now supported, though not used by default
    - Footers are supported
* Clarified what the `--batch` option actually does
* The `reorg` command is now safe by default. When run with no options, it will just display the actions that it would take. To actually move files (and optionally delete directories), use the new `--commit` option.

## Fixed

* Changeling linter thought every kith was unrecognized
* Fix extra `p` tags in parsed markdown in html listings
* Fix listing output for characters with a bare `foreign` tag
* Parser no longer chokes on special characters in character name from file name

## Removed

* The `reorg` command no longer has a `dryrun` option.
