# 1.4.1

## Added

* The `session` command can now create additional files alongside the plot and session log
* New `employer` group-like tag
* Internal caching in the template formatter should speed up generating large character lists
* YAML is now supported for configuration files alongside JSON. If a JSON file and a YAML file are both present with the same name other than the file extension, the JSON file will take precedence. This is due to the massively slower parsing speed of YAML files. All configuration files are present in both formats for reference.
* Discrete classes for more involved character types: Changeling, Werewolf, and Spirit
* New `@keep` directive flag to prevent a character from being moved by the reorg command
* The `changeling` command accepts two new arguments: `--freehold` and `--entitlement`. These set the new character's freehold name and entitlement name, respectively.
* It's now possible to hide a single tag value
* New `@nolint` directive flag to exclude a character from linting

## Changed

* The `session` command got rewritten
    - Now reports which path was missing if either the plot path or session path are not accessible
    - Its settings structure is different: see the "story" section in "settings-default.json"
    - Template names are now used to locate existing files as well as generate new file names. They must contain NNN in the filename.
    - Character case in template names are now duplicated in generated files
    - Templates can have special "NNN" and "((COPY))" keywords that get replaced on file creation
* The `latest` command now reports which path was missing if either the plot path or session path are not accessible
* The `latest` command no longer requires the input "both" to return all the latest files. Instead, all files are returned by default and using a keyword limits what is returned. The function argument is now optional.
* Files are opened by the system default editor for that type, or the "editor" value from settings.
* The `settings` command now detects which format is in use
* Character objects now store their tags in `self.tags` instead of directly on the object
    - Tag getting and setting has been moved from Character objects to their TagContainer and stored Tag objects
* Strict character validation now flags the class type if there's a mismatch
* Character path is now accessed through the `path` attribute, not through `tags['path']`
    - The `has_path` property has been removed. Test path presence by testing `character.path` directly
* Each character type can have its own list of supported tags
    - This improves the support for oddball or unique tags, like auspice and ban, and allows more accurate linting
* The `list` command no longer automatically opens all files. Instead, there's a new `--open` option to do that. The old `--report` option has been removed.
* The `@hide` directive can now hide a tag, a single tag value, all the subvalues for a group value, or a single subvalue for a single group value. The syntax is straightforward: `@hide tagname >> tag value >> subvalue`.
    - The special `subtags` element hides the subtag entirely, so `@hide group >> Orchestra >> subtags` will hide all `rank` elements for the `Orchestra` group.

## Fixed

* New character objects won't choke on a non-list attribute value

## Removed

* The `@hidegroup` and `@hideranks` directives are deprecated and should be replaced using the new syntax
