# 1.4.0

Werewolves are supported! Along with the tags, character sheet, and templates for that, there are a few other neat features.

* Werewolf characters
* Spirit characters
* Default tag values for new characters
* Separate ignored paths for each command (requires settings change)
* Better character sorting (requires settings change)

## Added

* New `@werewolf` tag for specifying werewolf type and auspice on one line
* Settings now has a `tag_defaults` key that sets default tag values for newly created characters.
* Settings files now ignore trailing commas
* Sort character listings and dumps by any tag or set of tags, each in ascending or descending order. You'll have to update your settings files to use the new `sort_by` format.
* Sort by type-dependent tags
* Configurable list headings for character tags.
* Set the base heading level in settings.
* Turn off sorting for character listings altogether using `--no_sort`
* Force listing to contain only body content using `--partial`
* New setting for default character type in GUI
* Settings for allowed werewolf auspices and tribes
* Customizable sectioners to support complex sorting of character listings

## Changed

* Ignored paths can now be specified for each command separately, in addition to universal ignored paths. You'll have to change your settings files to use the new `ignore` section format.
* The `list` command's `--sort` argument is renamed `--sort_by`.
* The `include_metadata` argument to formatters is now `metadata_format`.
* Refactored the listing renderers into objects

## Fixed

## Removed

* The `fetch` and `goblin` character creation commands are gone. Use `new fetch` or `new goblin` instead.
