README.md, before:

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" bracket="round" depth=2 -->

- [About](#about)
    - [Requirements](#requirements)
    - [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Set Up Directories](#set-up-directories)
    - [Create Session Files](#create-session-files)
    - [Create a Character](#create-a-character)
    - [Lint Character Files](#lint-character-files)
    - [Make an NPC Listing](#make-an-npc-listing)
    - [Dump Raw NPC Data](#dump-raw-npc-data)
    - [Reorganize Character Files](#reorganize-character-files)
    - [Edit Settings](#edit-settings)
- [Gotchas](#gotchas)
    - [Using both `search` and `ignore`](#using-both-search-and-ignore)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [Type-Specific Settings](#type-specific-settings)
- [Testing](#testing)
    - [Requirements](#requirements-1)
    - [Running Tests](#running-tests)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

# About

I created NPC to make my life easier when running New World of Darkness tabletop RPGs. It automates and streamlines a few tedious tasks like creating new session logs and character sheets.

This project is very much a work in progress. It works well enough for me to use at my weekly game, but that's it.

## Requirements

NPC requires at least:

* Python 3.5.0
* [Mako](http://www.makotemplates.org/) 1.0.0
* [Python Markdown](http://pythonhosted.org/Markdown/index.html) 2.6.0

## Installation

First, simply clone the NPC repo into the desired install directory. Then make symlink npc.py to somewhere in your path:

`ln -s ~/bin/npc npc.py`

# Usage

The functionality of NPC is split among a few sub-commands. Each one encompasses a single high-level task, and has its own options.

These global options must be passed *before* the name of the subcommand. They affect the overall behavior of NPC:

* `--batch`: By default, NPC will open whatever files are relevant to the subcommand. The `--batch` switch prevents that from happening.
* `--campaign`: By default, NPC derives the campaign path from the current directory when it is run. It does this by walking backward until it finds the `.npc/` campaign config directory, or hits root. In the latter case, it just uses the current directory. The `--campaign` argument overrides this behavior and explicitly sets the campaign directory.
* `--debug`: Forces NPC to show every error that occurs, even when those errors are harmless. Useful for figuring out settings problems.

## Set Up Directories

The `init` command creates the basic directories that NPC expects to find. Every directory under the `paths` key in the settings file is created, along with the special `.npc` directory.

Options:

* `--types`: Within `paths.characters`, create every directory in the `type_paths` key.
* `--all`: Create all optional directories

## Create Session Files

The `session` command creates the files that I need at the very start of a gaming session. It looks for the last session log and plot file, named `Session Log \d+` and `Plot \d+` respectively, and extracts their sequence number. It increments that to get the number for the new files, then copies the old plot file to its new location, and copies the session log template to its new location. It will open all four files.

If anything goes wrong in this process (like malformatted file names) it will yell about it. Everything in a file name after "` - `" is ignored.

## Create a Character

Most subcommands involve creating a specific type of character. Character files are put into the base characters directory (`Characters/` by default), with further options based on their type, groups, and sometimes other factors.

All characters support the following options:

* `name`: The first positional argument is always the character/file name. The expected format is `character name - brief note`. During parsing, everything after "` - `" is ignored.
* `-g`, `--group`: Name of one or more groups that the character belongs to.
* `--dead`: Indicates that the character is dead, with optional notes about it.
* `--foreign`: Indicates that the character is foreign to the main campaign setting, with notes about where they are.

### Simple Characters

Simple characters have no unique options, they just change the character's type. They are created using a few commands:

The `generic` command creates a new simple character using the named type. As long as that type has a defined template and type_path, it'll work. There are a few accelerators for common simple types as well:

* `human`: Create a human. Type path is `Humans/`
* `fetch`: Create a fetch. Type path is `Fetches/`
* `goblin`: Create a goblin. Type path is `Goblins/`

#### Destination Path

Simple characters all use the same rules for determining the destination path. Like all characters, they start in `Characters/`. Other directories are then appended, assuming they already exist. If these directories do not exist, they are not created.

These are the directories that are appended, in order:

1. Type path, like `Humans/`
2. First listed group name, if given (like `Police/`)
    * Other group names are also tried, in order.
3. If the @foreign tag is present, `Foreign/`

Here are some examples:

> The path `Characters/Humans/Police` exists. Running `npc human "Prakash Dupene" -g Police` will start in
> `Characters/`, and try to find `Humans/`. Since it can, it will then look in `Characters/Humans/` for
> `Police/`. Finding that directory, and having no more groups to check, it will create the file
> `Characters/Humans/Police/Prakash Dupene.nwod` and open it.

> With the same path, running `npc human "John Doe" -g "Bulldog Barons"` will also start in `Characters/` and
> try to find `Humans/`. Since it can, it will then look in `Characters/Humans/` for `Bulldog Barons/`. That
> directory does not exist, and there are no more groups to try, so it will create `Characters/Humans/John
> Doe.nwod` and open it.

> With the same path, running `npc human "Hans Fritz" -g "Funkadelic" "Police"` will quickly find
> `Characters/Humans/`. It will look there for `Funkadelic/`, but that directory does not exist. It will then
> look in `Characters/Humans/` for `Police/`, and find it. There are no more groups to try, so it will create
> `Characters/Humans/Police/Hans Fritz.nwod`.

> The path `Characters/Humans/Police/Foreign` exists. Running `npc human "Frank Bullman" -g Police --foreign
> Minneapolis` will quickly find `Characters/Humans/Police/`. It will then look for `Foreign/`, and find it.

> With the same path, running `npc human "Norman Dirk" --foreign Seattle` will find `Characters/Humans/` and
> since there are no groups to try, it will look for `Foreign/`. Since that directory does not exist, it will
> create `Characters/Humans/NormanDirk.nwod`.

### Changelings

The `changeling` command has a few more arguments than the simple characters, to deal with changeling-specific attributes. New changeling caracters use the base path `Characters/Changelings/`.

Options:

* `seeming`: Name of the changeling's Seeming. This will be added to the character's stats with notes about the Seeming Blessing and Curse, if the seeming is found in `support/seeming-kith.json`.
* `kith`: Name of their Kith. Also added to the character's stats with notes about the Kith Blessing, if the kith is found in `support/seeming-kith.json`.
* `--court`: Name of the changeling's court, if they have one. This is the first "group" checked when creating the path.
* `--motley`: Name of the changeling's motley, if known. This does not affect the path, but is added to the file as a tag.

## Lint Character Files

The `lint` command checks character files for errors and inconsistencies. It's a good idea to run `npc lint` and fix all the problems it reports before you run `npc list`.

Options:

* `--search`: Only look in these files and directories. Defaults to the base characters path.
* `--ignore`: Ignore these files and directories. By default, nothing is ignored.
* `--fix`: Automatically fix a few problems. Most require manual fixing, though.

Every character file is checked for these problems:

* A description is present
* The `@type` tag is present and has a value

Changeling character files are checked for these additional problems:

* The `@court` tag is either not present, or appears only once
* The `@motley` tag is either not present, or appears only once
* The `@seeming` tag is present and has a recognized value. This tag is added automatically if you use the `@changeling <seeming> <kith>` tag.
* The `@kith` tag is present and has a recognized value
* The stats specify the same seeming(s) as the `@seeming` tag(s)
* The stats specify the same kith(s) as the `@kith` tag(s)
* The notes for each seeming in the stats are present and correct. If `--fix` is passed, these notes will be updated.
* The notes for each kith in the stats are present and correct. If `--fix` is passed, these notes will be updated.

## Make an NPC Listing

The `list` command creates a page of character information. It ignores everything except the tags and description in each character file.

Options:

* `--search`: Only look in these files and directories. Defaults to the base characters path.
* `--ignore`: Ignore these files and directories. By default, nothing is ignored.
* `--format`: Specify the format of the output. One of `markdown`, `md`, `json`, 'htm', or 'html'. Defaults to `markdown`.
* `--metadata`: Include metadata in the output. Can optionally specify the format of this metadata, if the main format supports it. Pass `default` to use the metadata type from your settings. Recognized values depend on the output format:
    - Markdown supports `mmd` for MultiMarkdown metadata, and `yfm` or `yaml` for YAML Front Matter metadata
    - HTML supports `meta` to put metadata in `<meta>` elements in the document `<head>`
* `--outfile`: Path where the output should go. If omitted (or you pass `-`), the output will go to stdout for chaining to another command.

## Dump Raw NPC Data

The `dump` command builds a list of parseable NPCs in json format. It ignores everything except the tags and description.

Options:

* `--search`: Only look in these files and directories. Defaults to the base characters path.
* `--ignore`: Ignore these files and directories. By default, nothing is ignored.
* `--sort`: Sort NPCs by name before dumping the output
* `--metadata`: Include metadata in the output. Uses the json default metadata from the settings.
* `--outfile`: Path where the output should go. If omitted (or you pass "`-`"), the output will go to stdout for chaining to another command.

## Reorganize Character Files

The `reorg` command builds default paths for all the characters and then moves them. It's inspired by that time when I realized I had 20 police officers in a sea of 130 human characters, and really wanted to put them in their own folder.

For an explanation of the default paths, see [Create a Character](#create-a-character).

Characters are always placed within the default characters path, regardless of the `search` argument.

Options:

* `--search`: Only look in these files and directories. Defaults to the base characters path.
* `--ignore`: Ignore these files and directories. By default, nothing is ignored.
* `--purge`: After moving the files, remove any empty directories within the root characters path
* `--verbose`: Show each change as it's made

## Edit Settings

While you can edit settings files manually (see [Configuration](#configuration) below), you can also use the `settings` command to easily open the desired settings file.

Options:

* `location`: The settings file to open. Use `user` to open your user settings, or `campaign` to open the current campaign's settings.
* `--type`: The type of settings to open. Leave it off to open the main settings file, or specify `changeling` to open the changeling-specific settings.

# Gotchas

## Using both `search` and `ignore`

The `--search` and `--ignore` options interact in the following ways:

1. When the same directory is passed to `search` and `ignore`, `ignore` wins out and the directory is not scanned.
2. When a directory is passed to `search` and one of its child directories is passed to `ignore`, the child directory is not scanned.
3. When a directory is passed to `search` and a file within that directory is passed to `ignore`, the file is not scanned.
4. When a file is passed to `search` and `ignore`, `search` wins and the file is *always scanned*.

# Configuration

NPC reads config values from three separate files. These settings files use the json syntax and allow comments.

Default values are loaded from `support/settings-default.json` within the install directory. This file has extensive documentation of the available settings.

User settings are loaded from `~/.config/npc/settings.json`. Settings in this file will overwrite the default values.

Finally, campaign settings are loaded from `.npc/settings.json` within the current directory at runtime. Settings here will overwrite the default and user values.

To open these settings files easily, you can use the `settings` command.

## Type-Specific Settings

Additional settings files are loaded for each special character type. Their files are loaded from the same directories as above, but are named `settings-[type].json`. So, the Changeling settings for a campaign would be found in `.npc/settings-changeling.json`.

Each type-specific settings file starts with a single key that matches the name of the character type. This means that if you really want to, you can override type-specific settings within the normal `settings.json` file by putting the new values under the appropriate key. It's much better to keep the type-specific stuff separate, though.

### Changeling Settings

The keys inside `settings-changeling.json` specify what seemings and kiths are allowed, and what their blessings and curses are. The default list includes all seemings and kiths published by White Wolf for *Changeling: the Lost* as part of *New World of Darkness* first edition. To use a different list, you have to specify the entire new list of seemings or kiths that you want to use, even if only a few entries change.

Changing the blessing and curse text is less arduous. To add a new blessing or curse, just add a new entry to the appropriate dict. Its key must be the name of the seeming or kith to which it applies. To change an existing blessing or curse, just add a new entry using the same key. The old entry will be overwritten.

#### Validity

Every seeming *must* have a corresponding entry in both the `blessings` and `curses` dicts. Every kith *must* have a corresponding entry in the `blessings` dict. Kith curses are not supported by NPC and will be ignored.

Since both seemings and kiths share the same blessings and curses dictionaries, all seeming and kith names *should* be unique. If a seeming and kith have the same name, then both will have the same blessing. That's probably not what you want.

# Testing

## Requirements

* pytest 2.8.5

## Running Tests

Go to the root project directory and run `python -m pytest`.

Commit message:

Add useful links to the wiki

README.md, after:

<!-- MarkdownTOC autolink="true" bracket="round" depth=2 -->

- [About](#about)
    - [Requirements](#requirements)
    - [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Set Up Directories](#set-up-directories)
    - [Create Session Files](#create-session-files)
    - [Create a Character](#create-a-character)
    - [Lint Character Files](#lint-character-files)
    - [Make an NPC Listing](#make-an-npc-listing)
    - [Dump Raw NPC Data](#dump-raw-npc-data)
    - [Reorganize Character Files](#reorganize-character-files)
    - [Edit Settings](#edit-settings)
- [Gotchas](#gotchas)
    - [Using both `search` and `ignore`](#using-both-search-and-ignore)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
    - [Type-Specific Settings](#type-specific-settings)
- [Testing](#testing)
    - [Requirements](#requirements-1)
    - [Running Tests](#running-tests)

<!-- /MarkdownTOC -->

# About

I created NPC to make my life easier when running New World of Darkness tabletop RPGs. It automates and streamlines a few tedious tasks like creating new session logs and character sheets.

This project is very much a work in progress. It works well enough for me to use at my weekly game, but that's it.

## Requirements

NPC requires at least:

* Python 3.5.0
* [Mako](http://www.makotemplates.org/) 1.0.0
* [Python Markdown](http://pythonhosted.org/Markdown/index.html) 2.6.0

## Installation

First, simply clone the NPC repo into the desired install directory. Then make symlink npc.py to somewhere in your path:

`ln -s ~/bin/npc npc.py`

# Usage

The functionality of NPC is split among a few sub-commands. Each one encompasses a single high-level task, and has its own options.

These global options must be passed *before* the name of the subcommand. They affect the overall behavior of NPC:

* `--batch`: By default, NPC will open whatever files are relevant to the subcommand. The `--batch` switch prevents that from happening.
* `--campaign`: By default, NPC derives the campaign path from the current directory when it is run. It does this by walking backward until it finds the `.npc/` campaign config directory, or hits root. In the latter case, it just uses the current directory. The `--campaign` argument overrides this behavior and explicitly sets the campaign directory.
* `--debug`: Forces NPC to show every error that occurs, even when those errors are harmless. Useful for figuring out settings problems.

## Set Up Directories

The `init` command creates the basic directories that NPC expects to find. Every directory under the `paths` key in the settings file is created, along with the special `.npc` directory.

Options:

* `--types`: Within `paths.characters`, create every directory in the `type_paths` key.
* `--all`: Create all optional directories

## Create Session Files

The `session` command creates the files that I need at the very start of a gaming session. It looks for the last session log and plot file, named `Session Log \d+` and `Plot \d+` respectively, and extracts their sequence number. It increments that to get the number for the new files, then copies the old plot file to its new location, and copies the session log template to its new location. It will open all four files.

If anything goes wrong in this process (like malformatted file names) it will yell about it. Everything in a file name after "` - `" is ignored.

## Create a Character

Most subcommands involve creating a specific type of character. Character files are put into the base characters directory (`Characters/` by default), with further options based on their type, groups, and sometimes other factors.

All characters support the following options:

* `name`: The first positional argument is always the character/file name. The expected format is `character name - brief note`. During parsing, everything after "` - `" is ignored.
* `-g`, `--group`: Name of one or more groups that the character belongs to.
* `--dead`: Indicates that the character is dead, with optional notes about it.
* `--foreign`: Indicates that the character is foreign to the main campaign setting, with notes about where they are.

### Simple Characters

Simple characters have no unique options, they just change the character's type. They are created using a few commands:

The `generic` command creates a new simple character using the named type. As long as that type has a defined template and type_path, it'll work. There are a few accelerators for common simple types as well:

* `human`: Create a human. Type path is `Humans/`
* `fetch`: Create a fetch. Type path is `Fetches/`
* `goblin`: Create a goblin. Type path is `Goblins/`

#### Destination Path

Simple characters all use the same rules for determining the destination path. Like all characters, they start in `Characters/`. Other directories are then appended, assuming they already exist. If these directories do not exist, they are not created.

These are the directories that are appended, in order:

1. Type path, like `Humans/`
2. First listed group name, if given (like `Police/`)
    * Other group names are also tried, in order.
3. If the [@foreign](https://github.com/aurule/npc/wiki/Character-Sheet-Format#foreign-location) tag is present, `Foreign/`

Here are some examples:

> The path `Characters/Humans/Police` exists. Running `npc human "Prakash Dupene" -g Police` will start in
> `Characters/`, and try to find `Humans/`. Since it can, it will then look in `Characters/Humans/` for
> `Police/`. Finding that directory, and having no more groups to check, it will create the file
> `Characters/Humans/Police/Prakash Dupene.nwod` and open it.

> With the same path, running `npc human "John Doe" -g "Bulldog Barons"` will also start in `Characters/` and
> try to find `Humans/`. Since it can, it will then look in `Characters/Humans/` for `Bulldog Barons/`. That
> directory does not exist, and there are no more groups to try, so it will create `Characters/Humans/John
> Doe.nwod` and open it.

> With the same path, running `npc human "Hans Fritz" -g "Funkadelic" "Police"` will quickly find
> `Characters/Humans/`. It will look there for `Funkadelic/`, but that directory does not exist. It will then
> look in `Characters/Humans/` for `Police/`, and find it. There are no more groups to try, so it will create
> `Characters/Humans/Police/Hans Fritz.nwod`.

> The path `Characters/Humans/Police/Foreign` exists. Running `npc human "Frank Bullman" -g Police --foreign
> Minneapolis` will quickly find `Characters/Humans/Police/`. It will then look for `Foreign/`, and find it.

> With the same path, running `npc human "Norman Dirk" --foreign Seattle` will find `Characters/Humans/` and
> since there are no groups to try, it will look for `Foreign/`. Since that directory does not exist, it will
> create `Characters/Humans/NormanDirk.nwod`.

### Changelings

The `changeling` command has a few more arguments than the simple characters, to deal with changeling-specific attributes. New changeling caracters use the base path `Characters/Changelings/`.

Options:

* `seeming`: Name of the changeling's Seeming. This will be added to the character's stats with notes about the Seeming Blessing and Curse, if the seeming is found in `support/seeming-kith.json`.
* `kith`: Name of their Kith. Also added to the character's stats with notes about the Kith Blessing, if the kith is found in `support/seeming-kith.json`.
* `--court`: Name of the changeling's court, if they have one. This is the first "group" checked when creating the path.
* `--motley`: Name of the changeling's motley, if known. This does not affect the path, but is added to the file as a tag.

## Lint Character Files

The `lint` command checks character files for errors and inconsistencies. It's a good idea to run `npc lint` and fix all the problems it reports before you run `npc list`.

Options:

* `--search`: Only look in these files and directories. Defaults to the base characters path.
* `--ignore`: Ignore these files and directories. By default, nothing is ignored.
* `--fix`: Automatically fix a few problems. Most require manual fixing, though.

Every character file is checked for these problems:

* A description is present
* The `@type` tag is present and has a value

Changeling character files are checked for these additional problems:

* The `@court` tag is either not present, or appears only once
* The `@motley` tag is either not present, or appears only once
* The `@seeming` tag is present and has a recognized value. This tag is added automatically if you use the `@changeling <seeming> <kith>` tag.
* The `@kith` tag is present and has a recognized value
* The stats specify the same seeming(s) as the `@seeming` tag(s)
* The stats specify the same kith(s) as the `@kith` tag(s)
* The notes for each seeming in the stats are present and correct. If `--fix` is passed, these notes will be updated.
* The notes for each kith in the stats are present and correct. If `--fix` is passed, these notes will be updated.

## Make an NPC Listing

The `list` command creates a page of character information. It ignores everything except the tags and description in each character file.

See the wiki page on [NPC Listings](https://github.com/aurule/npc/wiki/NPC-Listings) for details on how the different formats work.

Options:

* `--search`: Only look in these files and directories. Defaults to the base characters path.
* `--ignore`: Ignore these files and directories. By default, nothing is ignored.
* `--format`: Specify the format of the output. One of `markdown`, `md`, `json`, 'htm', or 'html'. Defaults to `markdown`.
* `--metadata`: Include metadata in the output. Can optionally specify the format of this metadata, if the main format supports it. Pass `default` to use the metadata type from your settings. Recognized values depend on the output format:
    - Markdown supports `mmd` for MultiMarkdown metadata, and `yfm` or `yaml` for YAML Front Matter metadata
    - HTML supports `meta` to put metadata in `<meta>` elements in the document `<head>`
* `--outfile`: Path where the output should go. If omitted (or you pass `-`), the output will go to stdout for chaining to another command.

## Dump Raw NPC Data

The `dump` command builds a list of parseable NPCs in json format. It ignores everything except the tags and description.

Options:

* `--search`: Only look in these files and directories. Defaults to the base characters path.
* `--ignore`: Ignore these files and directories. By default, nothing is ignored.
* `--sort`: Sort NPCs by name before dumping the output
* `--metadata`: Include metadata in the output. Uses the json default metadata from the settings.
* `--outfile`: Path where the output should go. If omitted (or you pass "`-`"), the output will go to stdout for chaining to another command.

## Reorganize Character Files

The `reorg` command builds default paths for all the characters and then moves them. It's inspired by that time when I realized I had 20 police officers in a sea of 130 human characters, and really wanted to put them in their own folder.

For an explanation of the default paths, see [Create a Character](#create-a-character).

Characters are always placed within the default characters path, regardless of the `search` argument.

Options:

* `--search`: Only look in these files and directories. Defaults to the base characters path.
* `--ignore`: Ignore these files and directories. By default, nothing is ignored.
* `--purge`: After moving the files, remove any empty directories within the root characters path
* `--verbose`: Show each change as it's made

## Edit Settings

While you can edit settings files manually (see [Configuration](#configuration) below), you can also use the `settings` command to easily open the desired settings file.

Options:

* `location`: The settings file to open. Use `user` to open your user settings, or `campaign` to open the current campaign's settings.
* `--type`: The type of settings to open. Leave it off to open the main settings file, or specify `changeling` to open the changeling-specific settings.

# Gotchas

## Using both `search` and `ignore`

The `--search` and `--ignore` options interact in the following ways:

1. When the same directory is passed to `search` and `ignore`, `ignore` wins out and the directory is not scanned.
2. When a directory is passed to `search` and one of its child directories is passed to `ignore`, the child directory is not scanned.
3. When a directory is passed to `search` and a file within that directory is passed to `ignore`, the file is not scanned.
4. When a file is passed to `search` and `ignore`, `search` wins and the file is *always scanned*.

# Configuration

NPC reads config values from three separate files. These settings files use the json syntax and allow comments.

Default values are loaded from `support/settings-default.json` within the install directory. This file has extensive documentation of the available settings.

User settings are loaded from `~/.config/npc/settings.json`. Settings in this file will overwrite the default values.

Finally, campaign settings are loaded from `.npc/settings.json` within the current directory at runtime. Settings here will overwrite the default and user values.

To open these settings files easily, you can use the `settings` command.

## Type-Specific Settings

Additional settings files are loaded for each special character type. Their files are loaded from the same directories as above, but are named `settings-[type].json`. So, the Changeling settings for a campaign would be found in `.npc/settings-changeling.json`.

Each type-specific settings file starts with a single key that matches the name of the character type. This means that if you really want to, you can override type-specific settings within the normal `settings.json` file by putting the new values under the appropriate key. It's much better to keep the type-specific stuff separate, though.

### Changeling Settings

The keys inside `settings-changeling.json` specify what seemings and kiths are allowed, and what their blessings and curses are. The default list includes all seemings and kiths published by White Wolf for *Changeling: the Lost* as part of *New World of Darkness* first edition. To use a different list, you have to specify the entire new list of seemings or kiths that you want to use, even if only a few entries change.

Changing the blessing and curse text is less arduous. To add a new blessing or curse, just add a new entry to the appropriate dict. Its key must be the name of the seeming or kith to which it applies. To change an existing blessing or curse, just add a new entry using the same key. The old entry will be overwritten.

#### Validity

Every seeming *must* have a corresponding entry in both the `blessings` and `curses` dicts. Every kith *must* have a corresponding entry in the `blessings` dict. Kith curses are not supported by NPC and will be ignored.

Since both seemings and kiths share the same blessings and curses dictionaries, all seeming and kith names *should* be unique. If a seeming and kith have the same name, then both will have the same blessing. That's probably not what you want.

# Testing

## Requirements

* pytest 2.8.5

## Running Tests

Go to the root project directory and run `python -m pytest`.
