docs/reference/systems/fate-ep.rst, before:

.. _sys_fate-ep:

Eclipse Phase: Transhumanity's Fate
###################################

:bdg-info:`key: fate-ep`

Transhuman adventure in FATE

Play as secret agents protecting the scattered remnants of transhumanity from threats that could wipe it out once and for all. You're a transhuman -- a genetically modified human, an intelligent animal, a mind in a robotic shell, or even a bodiless artificial generalized intelligence. Your body is heavily upgraded, and your mind can communicate with every electronic device around it. You need every advantage, because you're up against mutants infected with an alien virus, WMD dealers, corrupted AGI god-minds, shifty amoeboid alien merchants, rampaging alien wildlife, and the ultimate threat: transhumanity's own self-destructive capabilities.

Unlike other Fate variants, this system redefines the trouble and aspect tags as subtags of the character's concept and morph.


Related Links
=============

.. button-link:: https://posthuman.shop/products/eclipse-phase-transhumanitysfate
    :color: primary
    :shadow:

    Homepage

.. button-link:: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/176939/Eclipse-Phase-Transhumanitys-Fate
    :color: primary
    :shadow:

    Book



New and Changed Tags
====================

.. _tag_fate-ep_concept:

@concept
--------

:bdg-warning:`Required`
:bdg-info:`Value required`
:bdg-info:`Min 1`
:bdg-info:`Max 1`

The character's high concept


Subtags
~~~~~~~

These tags can appear immediately after @concept and will be associated with that tag instance's value.

.. _tag_fate-ep_concept_trouble:

@trouble
~~~~~~~~

:bdg-warning:`Required`
:bdg-info:`Value required`
:bdg-info:`Min 1`
:bdg-info:`Max 1`

The character's main trouble in life


.. _tag_fate-ep_concept_aspect:

@aspect
~~~~~~~

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

An aspect of the character's ego



.. _tag_fate-ep_morph:

@morph
------

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

Special aspect for the body the character is wearing


Subtags
~~~~~~~

These tags can appear immediately after @morph and will be associated with that tag instance's value.

.. _tag_fate-ep_morph_aspect:

@aspect
~~~~~~~

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

An aspect of the character's morph



.. _tag_fate-ep_muse:

@muse
-----

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

Name of the character's muse


.. _tag_fate-ep_refresh:

@refresh
--------

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

Number of fate points the character starts with

Usually only relevant for PCs, since NPCs use a shared pool of GM fate points in every scene.


.. _tag_fate-ep_stunt:

@stunt
------

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

Name of a special power the character possesses




Character Types
===============

.. toctree::
    :hidden:
    :glob:

    fate-ep/*

.. include:: components/types/fate-ep_table.rst

Commit message:

Add async tag to fate-ep system

docs/reference/systems/fate-ep.rst, after:

.. _sys_fate-ep:

Eclipse Phase: Transhumanity's Fate
###################################

:bdg-info:`key: fate-ep`

Transhuman adventure in FATE

Play as secret agents protecting the scattered remnants of transhumanity from threats that could wipe it out once and for all. You're a transhuman -- a genetically modified human, an intelligent animal, a mind in a robotic shell, or even a bodiless artificial generalized intelligence. Your body is heavily upgraded, and your mind can communicate with every electronic device around it. You need every advantage, because you're up against mutants infected with an alien virus, WMD dealers, corrupted AGI god-minds, shifty amoeboid alien merchants, rampaging alien wildlife, and the ultimate threat: transhumanity's own self-destructive capabilities.

Unlike other Fate variants, this system redefines the trouble and aspect tags as subtags of the character's concept and morph.


Related Links
=============

.. button-link:: https://posthuman.shop/products/eclipse-phase-transhumanitysfate
    :color: primary
    :shadow:

    Homepage

.. button-link:: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/176939/Eclipse-Phase-Transhumanitys-Fate
    :color: primary
    :shadow:

    Book



New and Changed Tags
====================

.. _tag_fate-ep_concept:

@concept
--------

:bdg-warning:`Required`
:bdg-info:`Value required`
:bdg-info:`Min 1`
:bdg-info:`Max 1`

The character's high concept


Subtags
~~~~~~~

These tags can appear immediately after @concept and will be associated with that tag instance's value.

.. _tag_fate-ep_concept_trouble:

@trouble
~~~~~~~~

:bdg-warning:`Required`
:bdg-info:`Value required`
:bdg-info:`Min 1`
:bdg-info:`Max 1`

The character's main trouble in life


.. _tag_fate-ep_concept_aspect:

@aspect
~~~~~~~

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

An aspect of the character's ego



.. _tag_fate-ep_morph:

@morph
------

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

Special aspect for the body the character is wearing


Subtags
~~~~~~~

These tags can appear immediately after @morph and will be associated with that tag instance's value.

.. _tag_fate-ep_morph_aspect:

@aspect
~~~~~~~

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

An aspect of the character's morph



.. _tag_fate-ep_muse:

@muse
-----

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

Name of the character's muse


.. _tag_fate-ep_refresh:

@refresh
--------

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

Number of fate points the character starts with

Usually only relevant for PCs, since NPCs use a shared pool of GM fate points in every scene.


.. _tag_fate-ep_stunt:

@stunt
------

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-info:`Value required`

Name of a special power the character possesses


.. _tag_fate-ep_async:

@async
------

:bdg-secondary:`Optional`
:bdg-warning:`No value allowed`

Whether this charcter is an async with psychic powers

Asyncs are rare and can come from any background. This flag makes it easier to keep track of such characters.




Character Types
===============

.. toctree::
    :hidden:
    :glob:

    fate-ep/*

.. include:: components/types/fate-ep_table.rst
